git_workflows.md, before:

# Table of Contents

* [About this document](#about-this-document)
* [Contributing code to a collatorative project](#contributing-code-to-a-collatorative-project) 
  * [When you sit down to start work](#when-you-sit-down-to-start-work)
  * [After each hour of work and when you finish any major tasks](#after-each-hour-of-work-and-when-you-finish-any-major-tasks)
  * [When you finish work for the day](#when-you-finish-work-for-the-day)
* [Maintaining a log of weekly research progress updates](#maintaining-a-log-of-weekly-research-progress-updates)
  * [When you begin working on your log for the week](#when-you-begin-working-on-your-log-for-the-week)
  * [As you are working on your report throughout the week](#as-you-are-working-on-your-report-throughout-the-week)
  * [When you have finished your report for the week](#when-you-have-finished-your-report-for-the-week)
* [Setting up git on a new computer](#setting-up-git-on-a-new-computer)
  
# About this document
This document gives instructions for a few simple workflows using git and github.
In all cases, these instructions assume that you have already set up git on your computer and that you have already created or cloned a repository and have correctly set it up to interface with github.
For for detailed information, please see the full [git tutorial](https://github.gatech.edu/akirkpatrick3/git-resources/blob/master/git_tutorial.md).

These instructions also assume that you are working with only one remote and only one branch.
(If you don't know what those words mean, don't worry.
If you don't know what these things are, then you probably aren't using multiple!)

All of the commands given should be executed in a bash command line environment.
On Mac or Linux, this is just your system terminal.
If you are using Windows, I would recommend using git bash, which is available as part of [git for Windows](https://gitforwindows.org/).

# Contributing code to a collatorative project

## When you sit down to start work

1. Navigate to the repository.
```
cd path/to/repository
```

2. Pull down the latest changes from your collaborators.
```
git pull
```
In the vast majority of cases, this command will succeed without incident, and git will give you a message saying that it has made a merge by a recursive method. 
(Or your repository was already up to date in which case no merge was necessary.)
If git informs you that a manual merge is required and you are not comfortable with the merge process, please seek advice from a more experienced team member.

## After each hour of work and when you finish any major tasks
You don't need to follow these steps precisely every hour.
The idea is just to document your progress regularly.

1. Review the changes that you have made.
```
git status
```

2. Add files where you have made changes to the staging area. 
(These will mainly be source code and/or documentation in plain text or markup formats.)

```
git add file1
git add file2
git add file3
```

3. Take a look at your staged commit to make sure that you have not forgotten any important files.

```
git status
```
All new or modified files containing code or documentation should be included in your commit.
(You may exclude temporary files which you are using for experimentation in your current work session only.)

Automatically generated output (compiled code, log files) should not be included in commits and can be excluded from the output of `git status` using the `.gitignore` file. 
(See the tutorial or ask a more experienced team member for more information on `.gitignore.`)

Large amounts of data should never be included in repositories, but it is sometimes appropriate to include small amounts of data as a way of tracking the evolution of program output.
This should be discussed with your collaborators, and any data files you do not wish to include in the repository can be similarly excluded with `.gitignore`.

If your commit looks good, then continue to the next step.
If you need to make changes, use `git add` and `git rm` to add and remove files as needed.

4. Make a commit to record your work.
```
git commit
```

5. Git should open your text editor so that you can enter a commit message.
Write a message that describes what changes you have made and why.
(You do not need to record which files were changed, your own name, or any timestamp information, as git saves this automatically.)

6. Optionally, if you know that your collaborators are also currently writing code, go ahead and update both your local repository and the remote copy on Github.
```
git pull
git push
```

## When you finish work for the day
1. Complete steps under heading [After each hour of work and when you finish any major tasks](#after-each-hour-of-work-and-when-you-finish-any-major-tasks).

2. Push your changes to Github.
```
git push
```

If this command fails, the most likely cause is that one of your collaborators has pushed changes since your last pull.
To fix this, pull and then push again.
```
git pull
git push
```
When running `git pull`, there is a small chance that git will tell you that you need to manually merge changes.
(This can happen when you and a colleague both edit the same part of the same file.)
If you are not comfortable with the manual merge process, please seek assistance from a more experienced team member.

# Maintaining a log of weekly research progress updates
## When you begin working on your log for the week

1. Navigate to your repository

```
cd path/to/repository
```

2. Pull down changes from Github (not required if you work on only one computer)
```
git pull
```

3. Make a new directory for this week's updates
```
mkdir yyyy-mm-dd
```

4. Make a new text file for this week's report
```
cd yyyy-mm-dd
nano report_yyyy-mm-dd.txt
```
You can use any text editor of your choosing. 
Nano is just an example.
(You do not necessarily need to use a command line text editor.
Any GUI-based text editor is fine as long as you save your file in the appropriate location.)

5. If you are ready to start writing, proceed to section [As you are working on your report throughout the week](#as-you-are-working-on-your-report-throughout-the-week) below, omitting step 1.

## As you are working on your report throughout the week
1. If you are working on multiple computers, pull down your latest updates.
```
git pull
```

2. Edit report_yyyy-mm-dd.txt using the text editor of your choice.

3. Add any new or updated supporting files to this week's directory.
If you are updating a supporting file, be sure that you overwrite the original file.

Supporting files might include a PDF of a paper in progress, data plots in PDF format, raw data tables as plain text, PDF of more complex data or information prepared in LaTeX.
It is generally not necessary to duplicate information that is already included in another repository; you can just provide a link in your report.

4. (Optional step that allows you to work on your report on multiple computers.
Also has the advantage of creating a remote backup of your work.)
Follow the directions in section [When you have finished your report for the week](#when-you-have-finished-your-report-for-the-week) below.
When you write your commit message, it is good practice to include a phrase like "work in progress" or "rough draft" so that others seeing the automatically generated notification for your commit will know that you are not yet finished.

## When you have finished your report for the week
1. Add your report to the staging area.
```
git add report_yyyy-mm-dd.txt
```

2. Add any supporting files to the staging area.
```
git add file1
git add file2
```

3. Verify that all of the relevant files have been added to the staging area.
```
git status
```
Look at this output and verify that all of the relevant files are listed as changes added to commit. 
Make sure that you do not have any untracked files.
(These will be listed as untracked in that the output of `git status` if you have any.)

4. Make a commit.
```
git commit
```

5. Git will open your text editor.
Write a message to accompany this commit.
In this context, a brief message is generally appropriate.
For example, "final report for [date]" should be fine.
Exit your text editor, saving the file.

6. Push to Github.
```
git push
```

# Setting up git on a new computer

1. Check that git is installed

```
git version
```

2. Configure git with your name, email, and preferred text editor.

```
git config --global user.name "First Last"
git config --global user.email "FLast#@gatech.edu"
git config --global core.editor nano
```

3. Set up an ssh key, if needed or desired.
```
ssh-keygen
```
Press enter to accept default file names, then enter your new passphrase twice.

Copy the contents of `~./ssh/id_rsa.pub` into Github.

Commit message:

add git workflow: cloning a new repository

git_workflows.md, after:

# Table of Contents

* [About this document](#about-this-document)
* [Contributing code to a collatorative project](#contributing-code-to-a-collatorative-project) 
  * [When you sit down to start work](#when-you-sit-down-to-start-work)
  * [After each hour of work and when you finish any major tasks](#after-each-hour-of-work-and-when-you-finish-any-major-tasks)
  * [When you finish work for the day](#when-you-finish-work-for-the-day)
* [Maintaining a log of weekly research progress updates](#maintaining-a-log-of-weekly-research-progress-updates)
  * [When you begin working on your log for the week](#when-you-begin-working-on-your-log-for-the-week)
  * [As you are working on your report throughout the week](#as-you-are-working-on-your-report-throughout-the-week)
  * [When you have finished your report for the week](#when-you-have-finished-your-report-for-the-week)
* [Setting up git on a new computer](#setting-up-git-on-a-new-computer)
* [Cloning a new repository](#cloning-a-new-repository) 

 
# About this document
This document gives instructions for a few simple workflows using git and github.
With a few obvious exceptions, these instructions assume that you have already set up git on your computer and that you have already created or cloned a repository and have correctly set it up to interface with github.
For for detailed information, please see the full [git tutorial](https://github.gatech.edu/akirkpatrick3/git-resources/blob/master/git_tutorial.md).

These instructions also assume that you are working with only one remote and only one branch.
(If you don't know what those words mean, don't worry.
If you don't know what these things are, then you probably aren't using multiple!)

All of the commands given should be executed in a bash command line environment.
On Mac or Linux, this is just your system terminal.
If you are using Windows, I would recommend using git bash, which is available as part of [git for Windows](https://gitforwindows.org/).

# Contributing code to a collatorative project

## When you sit down to start work

1. Navigate to the repository.
```
cd path/to/repository
```

2. Pull down the latest changes from your collaborators.
```
git pull
```
In the vast majority of cases, this command will succeed without incident, and git will give you a message saying that it has made a merge by a recursive method. 
(Or your repository was already up to date in which case no merge was necessary.)
If git informs you that a manual merge is required and you are not comfortable with the merge process, please seek advice from a more experienced team member.

## After each hour of work and when you finish any major tasks
You don't need to follow these steps precisely every hour.
The idea is just to document your progress regularly.

1. Review the changes that you have made.
```
git status
```

2. Add files where you have made changes to the staging area. 
(These will mainly be source code and/or documentation in plain text or markup formats.)

```
git add file1
git add file2
git add file3
```

3. Take a look at your staged commit to make sure that you have not forgotten any important files.

```
git status
```
All new or modified files containing code or documentation should be included in your commit.
(You may exclude temporary files which you are using for experimentation in your current work session only.)

Automatically generated output (compiled code, log files) should not be included in commits and can be excluded from the output of `git status` using the `.gitignore` file. 
(See the tutorial or ask a more experienced team member for more information on `.gitignore.`)

Large amounts of data should never be included in repositories, but it is sometimes appropriate to include small amounts of data as a way of tracking the evolution of program output.
This should be discussed with your collaborators, and any data files you do not wish to include in the repository can be similarly excluded with `.gitignore`.

If your commit looks good, then continue to the next step.
If you need to make changes, use `git add` and `git rm` to add and remove files as needed.

4. Make a commit to record your work.
```
git commit
```

5. Git should open your text editor so that you can enter a commit message.
Write a message that describes what changes you have made and why.
(You do not need to record which files were changed, your own name, or any timestamp information, as git saves this automatically.)

6. Optionally, if you know that your collaborators are also currently writing code, go ahead and update both your local repository and the remote copy on Github.
```
git pull
git push
```

## When you finish work for the day
1. Complete steps under heading [After each hour of work and when you finish any major tasks](#after-each-hour-of-work-and-when-you-finish-any-major-tasks).

2. Push your changes to Github.
```
git push
```

If this command fails, the most likely cause is that one of your collaborators has pushed changes since your last pull.
To fix this, pull and then push again.
```
git pull
git push
```
When running `git pull`, there is a small chance that git will tell you that you need to manually merge changes.
(This can happen when you and a colleague both edit the same part of the same file.)
If you are not comfortable with the manual merge process, please seek assistance from a more experienced team member.

# Maintaining a log of weekly research progress updates
## When you begin working on your log for the week

1. Navigate to your repository

```
cd path/to/repository
```

2. Pull down changes from Github (not required if you work on only one computer)
```
git pull
```

3. Make a new directory for this week's updates
```
mkdir yyyy-mm-dd
```

4. Make a new text file for this week's report
```
cd yyyy-mm-dd
nano report_yyyy-mm-dd.txt
```
You can use any text editor of your choosing. 
Nano is just an example.
(You do not necessarily need to use a command line text editor.
Any GUI-based text editor is fine as long as you save your file in the appropriate location.)

5. If you are ready to start writing, proceed to section [As you are working on your report throughout the week](#as-you-are-working-on-your-report-throughout-the-week) below, omitting step 1.

## As you are working on your report throughout the week
1. If you are working on multiple computers, pull down your latest updates.
```
git pull
```

2. Edit report_yyyy-mm-dd.txt using the text editor of your choice.

3. Add any new or updated supporting files to this week's directory.
If you are updating a supporting file, be sure that you overwrite the original file.

Supporting files might include a PDF of a paper in progress, data plots in PDF format, raw data tables as plain text, PDF of more complex data or information prepared in LaTeX.
It is generally not necessary to duplicate information that is already included in another repository; you can just provide a link in your report.

4. (Optional step that allows you to work on your report on multiple computers.
Also has the advantage of creating a remote backup of your work.)
Follow the directions in section [When you have finished your report for the week](#when-you-have-finished-your-report-for-the-week) below.
When you write your commit message, it is good practice to include a phrase like "work in progress" or "rough draft" so that others seeing the automatically generated notification for your commit will know that you are not yet finished.

## When you have finished your report for the week
1. Add your report to the staging area.
```
git add report_yyyy-mm-dd.txt
```

2. Add any supporting files to the staging area.
```
git add file1
git add file2
```

3. Verify that all of the relevant files have been added to the staging area.
```
git status
```
Look at this output and verify that all of the relevant files are listed as changes added to commit. 
Make sure that you do not have any untracked files.
(These will be listed as untracked in that the output of `git status` if you have any.)

4. Make a commit.
```
git commit
```

5. Git will open your text editor.
Write a message to accompany this commit.
In this context, a brief message is generally appropriate.
For example, "final report for [date]" should be fine.
Exit your text editor, saving the file.

6. Push to Github.
```
git push
```

# Setting up git on a new computer

1. Check that git is installed

```
git version
```

2. Configure git with your name, email, and preferred text editor.

```
git config --global user.name "First Last"
git config --global user.email "FLast#@gatech.edu"
git config --global core.editor nano
```

3. Set up an ssh key, if needed or desired.
```
ssh-keygen
```
Press enter to accept default file names, then enter your new passphrase twice.

Copy the contents of `~./ssh/id_rsa.pub` into Github.


# Cloning a new repository
If you are working with an existing repository for the first time, do the following:

1. In your terminal, navigate to the location where you wish to store the repository.
For example,
```
cd ~/collaborative_projects
```

2. Find the repository address in Github.
Click on the "Code" tab of the repository you want to download.
Find the green button labeled "Clone or download," and click on it to obtain the SSH or HTTPS address for the repository.
Copy this address.
(The little clipboard button to the right of the address will copy the address to your clipboard automatically.) 
Generally speaking, you can use either address depending on personal preference, but you will want to use SSH with in the School of Math network.

3. Clone the repository.

```
git clone repository_address
```

You can now proceed to the [instructions for contributing to a collaborative repository](#contributing-code-to-a-collaborative-project).
